---
layout: post
title: Hiatus
---

Greetings to me, and other onlookers. It's been over a month since my last blog post, but I've done a lot of thinking and reading since 
then and would like to get stuff sorted out. Not to be too meta and talk about my own blog within the blog, but it's really helpful to 
put down what I've been working on and organizing thoughts and projects in a space where I feel comfortable speaking candidly. I'll also 
go over some recent trips and other things me related.  

### Research/ Work  
So first I'm gonna jot down my raw notes and try to flush out the detail a bit more on where I'm going with my machine learning project.  

- Using Kernel methods (specifically Support Vector Machine [SVM]) to classify a system as vulnerable or not vulnerable by adding threat 
  actor TTP's and business value could be a great model  
    
- Need to decide the weights on vulnerabilities, vulnerability profile, type of vulnerabilities, or # of vulnerabilities on a specific    client, system, network, etc.  
    
- Requires "feature engineering" or creating useful representations manually which is ideal because I have plenty of prior data on 
  vulnerability assessments  
    
  * Could also use a decision tree instead (need to do more research)  
  * Faggle.com is a website for machine learning competitions (good reference)
  * Also look into "gradient boosting machines"  
    
- Convolutional Networks or Deep Neural Networks could still be a viable approach (ore more specifically using gradient boosting)  
  * XGBoost library is used for gradient boosting algorithms
  * Also see "tensor operations"  

#### "But what does it mean, Basil?"  
Most of these notes have come from Francois Chollet's "Deep Learning with Python" (I'm pretty sure that's not how you annotate books, but 
fuck it). Right now I just finished the chapter on tensor operations and how those work using numpy. I haven't even really gotten to the 
meat and potatoes part which is Keras and using that framework. Just from my basic understanding of tensors, they are basically matrices 
in which you use linear algebra to guestimate a scalar (aka the "b" in "y = mx + b"). This seems fairly straightforward so now I just need 
to flush out what my columns (I can't remember the official term for it right now, it's like elements or something) which would basically 
the coefficients that would be determining my decision line if I used Support Vector Machine modelling.  

It seems like SVM modelling makes the most sense for what I want to do. Basically I want to be able to take vulnerability scan results, 
and take the analysis of risk out of the user's hands. I will do this by calculating fields like:  
- Vulnerability Score (cvss score)  
- CVSS CIA (confidentiality, impact, availability risk)  
- Key Terrain or Business Value  
- Current Intel TTP's or for a civilian application (or maybe alongside) include something with an RSS feed to most popular exploits/
malware and assign an interest level based on how frequent a certain exploit is appearing. Basically, the hipster factor (great name, btw)  
- Type of Vulnerability on a certain device (i.e. a denial of service on a web server will have a slightly lower score than it's database
 server or a gateway switch. Possibly even an easily exploited vulnerability on a gateway router vs. an internal router)
  - In order to do the gateway/internal thing I would have to write a parser that either took user input or found a good way to determine 
  whether the device is an internal or external facing device. The only other tool that I've seen do this is RedSeal. Would take a lot of 
  extra work if I didn't just use user input.  
-  And many more!  

Gah it's so hard for me to even keep focus on writing this blog post. Took me an hour and a half to write 20 mins worth of content. Gotta 
figure something out so I can get back into the groove of things.  

### The Groove  
I think the above project is a good starter one with machine learning, and so far the concepts seem simple enough that I could make 
something like this in a month or less (once I get a good rhythm going). However, lots of other things are probably going to impede my 
progress, like:  

- Transitioning from the military  
- Going back to school (going to finish at WGU in less than 3 months is my goal)
- Still have at least 2 more trips to make just this year, in Sept and Oct for work
- Plus there is a million awesome games coming out that I've really gotten into  
  - Monster Hunter World  
  - WoW: BFA  
  - CoD: BLOPS4 (this acronym is fun to say)
  - Maybe some more No Man's Sky
  - League
  
With all that said, I also hit Plat again this season in Solo/Duo for League. Which is nice, because I was beginning to think I wasn't 
a GAMER anymore.

### Speaking of Riot  
So I finally applied. I'm in the window of submitting an AF31 in order to separate early so I figured it was better to apply sooner rather 
than later so my dreams would have time to recover from the crushing. Which they were... It took 5 hours for the auto rejection email to 
come in. Was definitely a wake up call, that even though everyone says military experience is great, you definitely need to couple it with 
some commercial expertise. After getting some feedback, they said they were looking for someone who is more a "developer" than a script kiddie. 
Atleast, that's what I took from it. I'm just glad they got back to me with feedback. The phone feedback/interview was pretty cool, and definitely 
cemented my belief that it's a company I want to work for. I think after my ML project I might finally work on something that does mapping 
better with network devices using either configs or netflow traffic. I'll try to put it in Java, Ruby or C# so it's a sexier language, and
make sure to apply the whole development stack in it. Or integrate it rather... I'll probably do that with the ML project too, but saying 
it makes me feel like I'm accomplishing their objective. Weeeeeeee.





