---
layout: post
title: So Many Ideas... So Little Time
---

## Overview  
So many things I want to talk about so I need to break the topics out  
- Hackthebox
- OSCP
- Python Machine Learning 
- Data Science (w/security applications)
- Final thoughts on recent projects
- Realm Royale  

### Hackthebox  
So hackthebox has been a lot of fun. I've completed 3 challenges and each one has been in one sitting (admittedly it's been the easiest 
web challenges) so I feel like I'm doing ok. Although, in all these challenges there's been a way for me to get hints. For instance in the 
HDC challenge I was able to look at forums and someone mentioned to pay closer attention to the jquery to find the answer. I noticed that a 
separate page was called which only used one function, so it was easy to deduce it was a clue. However, I couldn't figure out what the clue 
actually told me. It's this point that leads me to the next topic.  

### OSCP  
What I was hinting to above is that there is no hints for OSCP... Wait a minute. Except for the fact that I still haven't looked into the 
forums for it. I still feel like looking at forums for exploitation exercises is like cheating, but without cheating it's trying to put 
together a puzzle without knowing what the picture looks like. Damn, that's a good analogy I thought of off the cuff. Anywho, it seems like
the point I'm trying to make is somewhat moot. I'm just struggling in this course since I have a plethora of boxes to choose from with 
hundreds of different vectors that I neither know how to prioritize or exploit since all my searches always point to metasploit (which is 
not a viable option since you can only use 1 MSF payload on the exam. To fix this I need to check the forums to get some hints to practice 
and talk to Sgt Z to find a more efficient way to query exploitation methods.  

### Python Machine Learning  
So machine learning in itself is a pretty interesting topic. I haven't actively pursued learning more because it seemed like more of a buzz
word than an interesting study, but the benefits of applying machine learning to security information seems like a good avenue to pursue. 
I did a small exercise with the pandas, scikit, and matplot modules which was neat, but used a lot of terms I wasn't familiar with. I need 
to research a little bit more about what my data set looks like before I can decide if linear models even make sense with the conclusions 
I'm trying to come to.  
Links - [Machine Learning, Step by Step](https://machinelearningmastery.com/machine-learning-in-python-step-by-step/) , [Make Predictions 
with Scikit Learn](https://machinelearningmastery.com/make-predictions-scikit-learn/)  

### Data Science (w/security applications)  
After trying to make more sense of the machine learning research I wanted to see how to apply it to a data set I know well, Nessus 
Vulnerability Data. I stumbled upon a real cool article about vFeed which is a database that holds a lot of CVE data in JSON format. This 
has a lot of cool implications with integrating the data with the Elastic stack as well as being able to take raw vulnerability data and 
create more meaningful products without human interaction (which the Air Force does very poorly by putting mechanics in charge of 
interpreting vulnerability data and drawing conclusions). I don't mean to sound snide, but the fact that critical thinking doesn't come 
standard in military training is a fact. That's why I hope I can create a tool that can highlight and draw conclusions based on the data
that is presented.  
Links - [Applying Data Analytics to Vulnerability Data](https://www.sans.org/reading-room/whitepapers/threats/applying-data-analytics-vulnerability-data-36532), [vFeed Docs](https://vfeed.io/docs/), [Google Search I Need to Look at More](https://www.google.com/search?q=read+nessus+data+with+pandas+python&oq=read+nessus+data+with+pandas+python&aqs=chrome..69i57.5767j0j4&sourceid=chrome&ie=UTF-8), [Understanding CVSS Score](https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln-metrics/cvss/v2-calculator)

### Final thoughts on recent projects  
There's still not a lot of content in Jacobi, i.e. queries that are missing from the interface. I really like the idea of pursuing 
analyzing vulnerability data since it's something I'm familiar with. I think trying to switch to netflow data when I'm so new to it was a
bit of a rush. I'll come back to this probably after this project is done and try applying it at home after I get my switch setup with span 
ports so I can monitor my own traffic. With the CVE-Sweeper, I'll probably incorporate the vFeed data into it to make more a super tool. 
Which will essentially supersede it's use. It was still a good project and taught me a lot though so I'll leave it up to reminisce.  

### Realm Royale  
I hit Masters today with 219 eliminations which feels pretty nice. I haven't hit that high of a rank in a video game in a long time, and
haven't had this good of a win rate since season 3 of League. I have been trying to go back and play league, but man is the community 
frustrating. It's nice being able to play with friends and not getting as frustrated over games. For the most part I think my League 
involvement will be keeping up with LCS and hopefully getting into casting when Clash starts back up. I'll make a blog post about my plans
once I have a better idea about it.  
