---
layout: post
title: Hiatus 2: Electric Boogaloo
---

Well if you thought the last Hiatus was long, this last was 4x longer. I guess I'll recap a bit on what has been going on, and what my plans are for the next couple months.

### CmonBruh

Ok so where have I been? Well, it started at getting promoted to Staff Sergeant, then going to Airman Leadership school for pretty much all of August/October. Then for the holiday season I spent a lot of time gaming and having a girlfriend for a while. Then in December my pup Gordon died which really sucks and gf moved to Korea, so I've just been recouping and trying to get my life back in order. 

As far as work goes, I've been working almost exclusively on mission planning and a lot of organizational issues. I feel that it's really helped progress a lot of my soft skills like communication and organization, but it does feel that a lot of my efforts aren't going anywhere. A good analogy a Captain made was "work is effort/distance and we're not going anywhere so no one is really working" and I feel as though that's accurate. However, I won't let it deter me from creating a final product before I leave the unit. I want to create an actionable plan (something that doesn't happen often) and craft it with clear goals of collection, assessment, analysis, and overall operation review. That way after I leave there will be a solid foundation forward in progressing with this style of defense ops. Don't want to get into much more detail than that.

Speaking of work, wasn't I supposed to be looking for a real person job by now? So between the medical bills of trying to keep Gordon alive,and the opportunity to work in Vegas, on a red team (which gets me a perspective I'm really curious about, still gotta figure out what I want to be when I grow up right?), and working with some really great leaders (my old supervisor who I probably did my best work for) I really couldn't say no to sticking around for another 4 years. Plus the contacts to be made out there, I'm sure will be invaluable. So lookout for me at Blackhat and Defcon the next couple years!

### What's Next?

Still wanting to keep my coding chops up to snuff, I'm looking to start a different project. I still want to circle back to my data analytics effort with machine learning in python, but for now I don't really have a great idea for applying it and its difficult to be motivated on a project that doesn't have a clearly defined goal, or a reason to do it, other than doing it (at least for me). That being said, my next project is going to be a simulation generator. Constantly I've run into an issue (both at my current unit and apparently at my new one) where there isn't enough resources (probably both time and money) to support building a virtual environment. I'd like to build an interface to define and design a virtual environment. I'll make a blog post about this tomorrow and will try to outline this effectively using some of the tips and tricks I've learned from some joint publications (for reference - https://www.jcs.mil/Portals/36/Documents/Doctrine/pubs/jp5_0_20171606.pdf). It's not a software development life cycle, but it is an effective planning tool. Never thought I'd hold military in high regard, but this process really makes sense and seems effective so I'll give it a go. Until next time...
